# What is Open?

The core definition of Open goes as follows:
>*Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access, use, modify, and share it — subject, at most, to measures that preserve provenance and openness.*

To be an open work, a piece of work has to use an **open license**, **open format** and has to allow **adequat access** to itself. An license also requieres several factors to be open. There are a lot of different open licenses for different types of documents and works. The most well known open initiatives are the *Open Source* initiative and the *Open Data* initiative.


Details regarding the definition of Open, Open Work and Open Licenses in several languages can be found at [opendefinition.org](http://opendefinition.org/).

# What is Open Data? And what is the difference to Open Government Data?

Open Government Data (**OGD**) means basically, that data *generated by the government* should be *freely* and *publically available*.
In comparison, Open Data is the idea that *all relevant data*, even from companies, organisations and private people should be freely available. Of course, this does not mean, that personal data should be made available, rather *anonymous* or *statistical* data. 

There are ten principles, which describbe Open Data:
* Completeness
* Primacy
* Timeliness
* Easy of physical and electronical access
* Machine readability
* Non-discrimination
* Use of commonly owned standards
* Licensing
* Permanence
* Usage Cost

Details about these principles, which are also known as the **Sebastopol List** can be found [here](https://sunlightfoundation.com/policy/documents/ten-open-data-principles/).

The main idea of Open Data is to make data *available to others*, so that they may gain new insights and are able to **generate new knowledge** from this data. This makes use of the principle "Four eyes see more than two!"

Examples for Open Government Data include not only election results and fiscal information, but also statistics and data generated by governmental agencies. An example for Open Data from a company could be the location of the companies facilities. 

Further information and details about the facets of Open Data can be found in the [Open Data Handbook](http://opendatahandbook.org/).

# What is Linked Open Data?

Linked Open Data (LOD) takes Open Data one step further and aims to create new knowledge by **combining different data**. To achieve this, data must be somewhat compatible. Therefore, the W3C has created a standard, the **Resource Description Framework (RDF)**, which is used to store data combinations (*Triples*) and meta information about them.  

Linked Open Data is accounted as successor of Open Data and a pre-step of the *Semantic Web*.

Further information about Linked Open Data can be found at [linkeddata.org](http://linkeddata.org/).

# And what about Open Government?

The Open Government initiative can be traced back to a memorandum from 2009 by the US President Barack Obama: 

>*My Administration is committed to creating an unprecedented level of openness in Government. We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration. Openness will strengthen our democracy and promote efficiency and effectiveness in Government.*

The main goal of this initiative is to strengthen the trust in the government by creating *transparency*, *public participation* and *collaboration* within the government and with the citizens. 

In 2011, the **Open Government Partnership** (OGP) has been formed. It promotes the values of Open Government. Countries which want to join need to fulfil certain eligibility criteria. Some countries which are part of the OGP are the USA, UK, South Africa or Norway.

Information about Open Government and the OGP can be found at [opengovpartnership.org](http://www.opengovpartnership.org/)

# What are the most important organisations concerning Open Data?

Maybe the most important organisation concerning the Open movement and especially Open Data is **Open Knowledge International** (<https://okfn.org/>) and their local chapters. The OKFN has several projects, like the Open Data Handbook, to promote the Open Data movement.

>*Open Knowledge International is a worldwide non-profit network of people passionate about openness, using advocacy, technology and training to unlock information and enable people to work with it to create and share knowledge.*

Another important organisation is the [Sunlight Foundation](http://sunlightfoundation.com/), which was responsible for releasing the ten principles of Open Data. 

Of course, there are many, many more movements and organisations in different countries, but each of them aim to promote the idea of Open (Government) Data.

# Can you measure how "Open" a country is?

Well, there are certain aspects which determine, how "Open" a country is. 
* Is the country part of the Open Government Partnership?
* * If not, which eligibility requirements are met and what is the countries eligibility score?
* Does the country have an official OGD Portal? Does it also support Open Data from companies?
* How many datasets are available?
* How many applications make usage of Open Data?  
This list could be enlarged endlessly.

Another possibility to determine how good a country performs in  the field of Open Data is the [Open Data Index](http://index.okfn.org/).  
Based on certain criteria (specific Datasets published and the quality of those), a country gets awarded a score. The better this score, the higher is the placement in the index.  
Currently, the leaders in Open Data are *Taiwan*, the *United Kingdom*, Denmark and suprisingly, Colombia.

# Are there legal aspects?

For european countries, the "*European legislation on reuse of public sector information*", or shorter **PSI Directive**, is some kind of Open Data law. This PSI Directive has to be implemented by every european country. The baseline is always the same, although the details can differ from coutry to country. The american equivalent to the PSI Directive is the "*Digital Accountability and Transparency Act*" (**DATA Act**). 

The **G8** countries also created the **Open Data Charter**, which emphasizes the importance of information and the importance of Open Data. 

Of course, every country has it's own laws which can influence Open Data. Therefore, research has to be done for every country on its own. What every country has in common though, is a law regarding **data privacy**. Open Data is not allowed to include any kind of data which can be traced back to a single person 
